---
layout: post
title:  LANGUAGES
date: 2020-28-04 15:10:00
description: Languages
---

At night,
I let Tagore sing to me,
crawl into the space 
between the notes
and curl myself along the arc of the moon that the songs paint

Most evenings,
I take long walks with songs by Hariharan.
Our fingers interlace,
as we watch the Sun set to the tunes of
Tu hi re.

All-day long music echoes within,
speaks to me 
in languages, I may
or may not understand.
Bangla, Malayalam, Hindi
flow into each other
like rivers
coming together at the Triveni Sangam.

Yet, 
when asked about my favorite songs,
I very carefully choose the English ones
like a farmer picking tomatoes
from a harvest, he is the proudest of.

Me and my sister,
we sing to each other,
pass lines like a relay baton
each holding the responsibility
to complete the song for the other.

Yesterday,
her friends asked 
if she had heard the new song by Rihanna
but nobody cared about the Jagjit Singh's ghazal
we had spent the night memorizing.

In my country,
we nurture racism in out throats,
hide it next to ipods in our pockets.
Here, English is the opposite of melanin.
Our choice of songs make our faces glow
Our vocabulary determines how white we are.

Once,
I said the word किंकर्तव्यविमूढ़ out loud
and they gawked at me 
like I was the darkest sky 
they had ever seen.

My country is a platter served to us.
22 languages,
each rolling peculiarly on our tongues,
leaving an aftertaste that stays for hours.
But some days I'm afraid 
that they'll end up as leftovers
stuck between our teeth.
That these languages 
will evaporate
and become just words
buried somewhere in dictionaries.

How long can we preserve the meanings after the words are forgotten?

It wasn't always like this.
Once,
We were little green leaves in a dense forest.
Came a storm and swept us away,
scattered us far.
And now we can't figure out
which trees we belong to?